a few of the most prominent lures in the
past seven years since old schools been
out are moving on from the game and done
luring they want to expose the lures and
explain how easy it is for dragons to
actually patch that a lot of you might
think no one Falls for these lures in
2020 especially high level players with
a lot of gold but there's plenty of
evidence these luring groups have made
so much gold every day and still do so
I'm gonna show you how they do it go
through the process and the most popular
ongoing lures and then I'm gonna go
undercover and pose as bait and you can
see everything I've explained in action
the screenshots you just saw our two
peoples loot from luring in the month of
January alone I can't even begin to show
you guys all the screenshots of luring
loot I got for this video but these guys
small team of four over the years since
old schools been out have gotten enough
GP from luring and then sold it to make
over 1 million US dollars combined these
guys are also credited with the highest
GPU are coming in at almost 16 bil the
guys who run this discord gave me access
to show what's going on the lures use a
discord bot I had to black out the name
of the maker of the bots but they run
accounts that hop through worlds on
popular places like the grand exchange
the bot picks up the players stats the
players username and the gear the
players wearing as well as its value it
sends the information to the discord
channel all the lures then know what
world the potential targets in and how
much money they might be able to get the
lures have already tried to lure the
players outlined in red there's an
ongoing list of people they've already
tried to lure so they don't try to re
lower the same players in waste time as
you can see from the timestamps on the
left there are enough bots doing this
where they find potential targets every
minute a lot of rich players watching
this video have definitely been scouted
by this bot the lures literally get
thousands of potential targets every day
my first question was how does anyone
actually trust a lure the answer to that
starts with the accounts the lures use
they purchased maxed accounts some of
them are even ranked as high as 400
overall peers with infernal caves and
accounts with 20 plus pets some of the
accounts have thousands of boss kills so
when a target is approached by a lure
the account the lure is on automatically
gives them some credibility just from
the time and success it seems like blurs
account has the account will also have
billions of gold of GP on them so the
target thinks the lure
is super rich when I went undercover is
bit this is the main accounts that tried
to scare me it's ranked 4000 overall a
lot of stats have 20 to 30 million
experience in them let's get into the
actual lures and every single one of
these lures is a long process and 90% of
it isn't about the actual mechanic in
the end that lures the person will go
over the first 90% of those lures later
in the video when I'm baiting lures but
for now let's take a look at the
mechanics the lures take advantage of to
trick their targets the first and by far
the most popular luring mechanic is
using items to stall your character as
you probably know there are certain
items in game that have animation that
make your players stay in the same place
even though the game thinks your player
is now in a different spot and stalling
when the other player trades you the
game treats it as though your character
is in the new location even though it
appears to be in the old location and
this is how the vast majority of lures
pull their targets into the dangerous
area there are less than 10 items that
can be used to do this stall lure Jagex
should patch this so quickly it's
mind-blowing that they haven't already
this one's the one the guys used in
January to get all of that loop but
basically the Lua ends up screen sharing
his screen with the target the bank at
the fishing guild is really big half of
its actually dangerous while half of its
safe the lure uses a room light plugin
that overlays the safe zone icon when
he's actually in the danger zone the
target thinks the bank is safe and this
is what happens this footage is a screen
share of the targets screen the lure is
recording it I don't want to use the
audio not just to not include the
targets voice but because it's pretty
sad you can tell the people that get
lured are really actually losing
something important to them the guy who
ended up killing the target was using a
third age ring transforming himself into
Third Age van braces which specifically
for this location is extremely hard to
see there are plenty of other small
mechanics or tricks lures use like
knowing as a abanks upstairs is not a
safe zone another common tactic is when
the first lures don't work on a target
the target will be traded like old robes
and a Pharaoh's scepter and be told to
put it on for a video some people don't
realize that Pharaoh's scepter is a
one-click teleport and will teleport you
to a dangerous area in a PvP zone but
there's no need to explain some of these
lures I had them try it on me if what
these guys were telling me was true if I
put on bills worth of gear and sat in
the grand exchange someone would
approach me
to lure me so I hopped on a friend's
account roughly combat level 100 put on
a twisted bow and waited within three
and a half minutes this maxed account
suck easy real came up to me and just
started asking me innocent PVM questions
but the guys I interviewed actually have
set up BOTS to stop other lures from
luring that's what you see in the upper
right hand corner a bot spamming warning
me from this guy's lure the questions
got more and more personal he asked
where I was from we talked for about 25
minutes up to this point all of a sudden
a low-level trades me shows me an arcane
and Dragon Warhammer and says you want
this for free the account then does the
same thing it did to me and trades up
easy real and this is where the lures
really initiated because now suck
ezreal's starts telling me that it's the
same thing this guy did the other day
but he knows how to anti-scam the guy if
anyone ever approaches you about anti
scamming just ignore them so now suk
explains we can anti lure them basically
they're gonna drop items and tells up to
tele grab those items duck would then be
pulled into the PvP world and killed but
all of these people are in on the lure
that's actually focused on me at this
point he asks if I have discord oh I
can't laugh I'm gonna laugh it's a
scammer a lure here we go boys
for legal reasons I don't want to use
his voice but he didn't recognize me he
showed me a screenshot of his
perspective on the PvP world where I
should stand to anti-scam the lure
that's trying to lure him I do and I get
a zgs but this means nothing to the
luring team they give me the zgs to
really draw me into the lure here
everything you see right now is a
performance they also flash an arcane on
the ground and then later blame me for
missing that arcane suck uses this to
make me feel bad and convinced me to go
anti lure someone else with him this
anti scam scenario is the setup for most
lures and the luring group has actually
posted a huge disinformation campaign
about this step a couple YouTube videos
were posted by the guys I interview and
they show themselves anti luring the
tele grab lure for hundreds of millions
of GP in the video they even explained
they've made 10 billion gp+ from doing
this anti scam the videos are completely
fake I was told this by the guy who made
them but after a player's watched the
video some of them are way more likely
to go hunt for
skimps what the video wants you to see
is the step where you take runes to tele
grab the items you're supposed to trade
the alleged lure and that's where the
real lure happens but in this video he
just trades and accepts the runes so
suck easy real tells me we need to act
as bait now so that we can anti-scam
more people and within the minute of
acting as bait another person comes and
trades me is showing me a third age
plate body a dragon hunter crossbow and
the tele grab runes the whole setup here
is to get me in the position where suck
easy real was the first anti-scam that
we did together they bring me to the
bank in Sears village and tell me to
drink a lot of zami brews so that I'm on
low HP all this time though suck easy
real is talking to me on discord telling
me how we're gonna get them for a
hundred mill and now he's asking me
where the guys are gonna drop the loot
and how he can help anti skin this is
the moment of the lure I don't want to
trade this person near the zone but they
want to see my inventory to make sure I
have my bank on and then they would
decline the trade and say trade to show
runes and when I tried to show runes
they would lure me into the dangerous
zone this is how they do the lure a lot
of you probably already know what it is
but it's a book stall lure here's the
danger zone here's the safe zone as you
can see the account did the book stall
lure if I trade the account look it boom
right into the danger zone and that's
exactly what happens trade for tele grab
runes and I get shot into the danger
zone in instantly one hit the lures are
super persistent though so even though I
wouldn't trade them near the zone I
decided to trade them in the corner of
the bank after I showed them the twisted
bow they said okay take a magician
outfit that you should wear when I
record I need a clip for spark Mac sorry
spark Mac I don't want to bring you into
this video but basically they give me
the outfit to wear and if you guys don't
know the Pharos scepter is actually a
one click left click teleport into a
dangerous zone in PvP worlds so it's
just another attempt to try to get my
twisted buff just to piss him off I
still put on the outfit after banking
the tebow and the Pharaohs scepter is a
good 5 mil so now I'm up like eight mill
on this whole thing at this point suck
easy real is getting pretty mad at me on
discord telling me I messed up the
arcane and now I'm messing this up and
this is how I leave it with him I feel
like sir pug er would love to see this
footage I should send this foot
to him right I think this was his
full-time job how much are we getting oh
that's way more than I expected almost
seven mil how much is the zgs four mil
all right 11 point 1 mil GP just from
pretending to be stupid the impact of
these lures isn't just people losing GP
they've told me they think they've made
at least 1,000 high-level players quit
the game and the sheer amount of reddit
posts discussing the lures showing how
they were lured and then saying that
they're going to quit backs up what
these guys are saying some of the most
dedicated players because they were
naive and trusting have quit the game
and lost thousands and thousands of
hours of progress now it was just
proposed that PvP worlds actually be
removed but unfortunately that would not
stop these lures it might slow them down
a little bit but that proposal also
contains an outline to move all PvP
related minigames and banks into the
wilderness so there would still be
plenty of areas to do the exact same
thing the real way we can stop this from
happening definitively other than
bringing attention to it is to get Jagex
to remove the items that allow lures to
do this
these stall animations may be a minor
bug but it still is a bug that allows
players to trick people into giving them
billions of GP worth over a million
dollars so here's what you have to
remember you must be slightly skeptical
of everyone who approaches you if they
start talking about an anti scam ignore
them completely they are 100% trying to
lure you if someone shows you items and
says there's a way for you to get them
it's too good to be true and don't
believe them if you enjoyed the video
please leave a like remember to tell Jax
to patch all items that can do the
stalling lure and share this video to
make sure we end luring in runescape on
a different note one of my friends who
used to play runescape is now making
music and he has a really cool music
video that just came out it has a lot of
cool animation in it so check that out
if you're interested the link is in the
description
you